We introduce dynamic instance hardness (DIH) to facilitate the training of machine learning models. DIH is a property of each training sample and is computed as the running mean of the sample s instantaneous hardness as measured over the training history. We use DIH to evaluate how well a model retains knowledge about each training sample over time. We find that for deep neural nets (DNNs), the DIH of a sample in relatively early training stages reflects its DIH in later stages and as a result, DIH can be effectively used to reduce the set of training samples in future epochs. Specifically, during each epoch, only samples with high DIH are trained (since they are historically hard) while samples with low DIH can be safely ignored. DIH is updated each epoch only for the selected samples, so it does not require additional computation. Hence, using DIH during training leads to an appreciable speedup. Also, since the model is focused on the historically more challenging samples, resultant models are more accurate. The above, when formulated as an algorithm, can be seen as a form of curriculum learning, so we call our framework DIH curriculum learning (or DIHCL). The advantages of DIHCL, compared to other curriculum learning approaches, are  (1) DIHCL does not require additional inference steps over the data not selected by DIHCL in each epoch, (2) the dynamic instance hardness, compared to static instance hardness (e.g., instantaneous loss), is more stable as it integrates information over the entire training history up to the present time. Making certain mathematical assumptions, we formulate the problem of DIHCL as finding a curriculum that maximizes a multi-set function , and derive an approximation bound for a DIH-produced curriculum relative to the optimal curriculum. Empirically, DIHCL-trained DNNs significantly outperform random mini-batch SGD and other recently developed curriculum learning methods in terms of efficiency, early-stage convergence, and final performance, and this is shown in training several state-of-the-art DNNs on 11 modern datasets. training dynamics, instance hardness, curriculum learning, neural nets memorization